Everyone likes to be happy. Everyone likes to be peaceful. Everyone likes to be joyful.
And everyone doesn't like suffering, sadness, difficulties. And that is just the same.
Feeling level is the same. Need level is the same. Situations and circumstances are the same.
But why does the difference? It's the only ego. That is then unimportant, this and that things.
So therefore, in the Buddha's teaching, when you practice bodhichitta, first is known as equalizing
practices.
"Dai yin yambai" in Tibet is equalizing. And then second is known as exchanging.
When you are actizing bodhichitta, exchanging, putting yourself, the other's position, and the
other you bring to your position.
Mentally, that poses all mental practices, mental training of the bodhichitta.
Finally, then even others are more dear than the others. One's own self.
And that's called "Dai yin yibai" in Tibet. The other is more dear, more precious than our self.
There's a lot of stories. I mean, the poor Buddha Chakyamuni's story.
When you read life story of Buddha, poor life story of Buddha Chakyamuni's, how many times he did
that practices.
And then throughout his teaching, that's what he said when you read enlightenment.
And all those great masters in India, when you read their books and teachings and instructions,
this is what all about.
And in Tibet, when Dharma came, so many great masters did this practices. They did this.
Not just his talk and saying, but his true practices.
Through that, they conquered all these negative emotions.
They reached the permanent peace and happy and joyful status, and brought so many beings to this
peaceful status.
So those are known as actualizing bodhichitta practices.
So therefore again, bodhichitta, I'm going to summarize now, bodhichitta is so special, so
important.
And that's why every practice hardener, when we do, there is rafuddhi practices, bodhichitta
practices.
Because they are the platform where the teaching is standard.
They are the foundation where the teaching or our practice is best.
And without that, there is no really Buddha teaching, no Buddhism.
Without the rafuddhi, without the bodhichitta.
And no Vedayana teachings, no Mahayana teachings, no Theravada teachings.
And this is really so important.
And therefore, it is so special, and I'm very happy that I'm trying to tell a little bit about this
reminder to each other.
Again, there is nothing new. I'm mentioning that, but we all know basically.
But since we practice this, it's good to, as I said, it's a reminder to each other and try to stay
in the course and then move forward.
And so that is really teachings or talks on bodhichitta.
And now I'm going to give some transmissions of these teachings and these practices.
Thank you.